## M3U	[Back](./../summary.md)

### Menu

- [**1. Introduction**](#1)
- [**2. Tags**](#2)

<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />

<h3 id="1"> 1. Introduction</h3>
===

- **M3U** is an standard of plain-text files, which is used to record an index. Player is not to play it, but to find video files to play according to the index recorded in M3U file.
- **M3U8** is a kind of M3U files with UTF-8 encode.
- **M3U** is based on a protocol named HLS (**H**TTP **L**ive **S**tream)
- A multimedia presentation is specified by a URI [RFC3986] to a Playlist file, which is an ordered list of media URIs and informational tags. Each media URI refers to a media file which is a segment of a single contiguous stream.
- Each ines is terminated by either a single LF (**\\n**) character or a CR (**\\n**) character followed by an LF character, and it maybe a URI, a blank, or starts with the comment character '#'.
	- **Tags**: begin with '#EXT'
	- **Comments**: only begin with '#'




<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />

<h3 id="2"> 2. Tags</h3>
===

##### 2.1 EXTM3U, EXTINF

- Description: To identify what kind of this file.  An Extended M3U file is distinguished from a basic M3U file by its first line, which must be **#EXTM3U**.
	- M3U: #EXTINF
	- Extended M3U: #EXTM3U
- Format: 
	- duration: an **integer(less than Version 3)** or floating-point number in decimal positional notation that specifies the duration of the media file in seconds.
	- title: the title of the media file

	```m3u
#EXTINF:<duration>,<title>
```

##### 2.2 EXT-X-TARGETDURATION

- Description: To specifie the maximum media file duration, which the EXTINF duration of each media file in the Playlist file must be less than or equal.
- Format: 
	- s: an integer indicating the target duration in seconds

	```m3u
#EXT-X-TARGETDURATION:<s>
```

##### 2.3 EXT-X-MEDIA-SEQUENCE (optional)

- Description: To indicate the sequence number of the first URI that appears in a Playlist file. 
- Format: 
	- number: if the playlist does not contain an EXT-X-MEDIA-SEQUENCE, it shall be considered to be 0

	```m3u
#EXT-X-MEDIA-SEQUENCE:<number>
```

##### 2.4 EXT-X-KEY (optional)

- Description: To provide information necessary to decrypt media files that follow it. 
- Format: 
	- attribute-list
		- **URI** attribute: to specify how to obtain the key
		- **IV** attribute: to specify the Initialization Vector to be used with the key (a hexadecimal-integer)
	- method: 
		- NONE: An encryption method of NONE means that media files are not encrypted
		- AES_128: An encryption method of AES-128 means that media files are encrypted using the Advanced Encryption Standard [AES_128] with a 128-bit key and PKCS7 padding [RFC5652]. (URI attribute must be present, IV attribute may be present)

	```m3u
#EXT-X-KEY:<attribute-list>
```

##### 2.5 EXT-X-PROGRAM-DATE-TIME (optional)

- Description: To indicate whether the client MAY or MUST NOT cache downloaded media files for later replay.
- Format: 

	```m3u
#EXT-X-ALLOW-CACHE:<YES|NO>
```

##### 2.6 EXT-X-PROGRAM-DATE-TIME (optional)

- Description: To indicate whether the client MAY or MUST NOT cache downloaded media files for later replay.
- Format: 

	```m3u
#EXT-X-ALLOW-CACHE:<YES|NO>
```

##### 2.7 EXT-X-PLAYLIST-TYPE (optional)

- Description: To provide mutability information about the Playlist file
- Format: 

	```m3u
#EXT-X-PLAYLIST-TYPE:<EVENT|VOD>
```

##### 2.8 EXT-X-ENDLIST

- Description: To indicate that no more media files will be added to the Playlist file. 
- Format: 

	```m3u
#EXT-X-ENDLIST
```

##### 2.9 EXT-X-STREAM-INF (optional)

- Description: To provide mutability information about the Playlist file
- Format: 
	- attribute-list
		- BANDWIDTH(**need**): a decimal-integer of bits per second, which must be an upper bound of the overall bitrate of each media file
		- PROGRAM-ID: a decimal-integer that uniquely identifies a particular presentation within the scope of the Playlist file
		- CODECS(**need**): a quoted-string containing a comma-separated list of formats, where each format specifies a media sample type that is present in a media file in the Playlist file
		- RESOLUTION: a decimal-resolution describing the approximate encoded horizontal and vertical resolution of video within the stream
	
	```m3u
#EXT-X-STREAM-INF:<attribute-list>
 <URI>
```

##### 2.10 EXT-X-DISCONTINUITY (optional)

- Description: To indicate an encoding discontinuity between the media file that follows it and the one that preceded it
- The set of characteristics that MAY change is:
	- file format
	- number and type of tracks
	- encoding parameters
	- encoding sequence
	- timestamp sequence
	
	```m3u
#EXT-X-DISCONTINUITY
```

##### 2.11 EXT-X-VERSION

- Description: To indicate the compatibility version of the Playlist file
- Attention: A Playlist file that does not contain an EXT-X-VERSION tag MUST comply with version 1 of this protocol.
	
	```m3u
#EXT-X-VERSION:<n>
```
